#summary DbCon's password obfuscation layer
#labels Phase-Support
= Introduction =

DbCon attempts to protect the privacy of passwords as found in the DbCon configuration file. The level of obfuscation is not very complex (nor was it ever intended to be) but it does offer a ASCII encoded String which can be easily added into your configuration files. The file parsers assume that all Strings are encoded using this system.

= Generating Obfuscated Strings =

Strings are generated via a main method found in the Obsfucator class. To use type the following command in (where dbcon.jar is the current release of the dbcon jar file).

{{{
localmachine> java -cp dbcon.jar uk.ac.sanger.cgp.dbcon.util.Obsfucator
}}}

This should give you a text menu

{{{
Which action do you want to perform:
          1). Encode string
          2). Decode string
}}}

Select a number, press return & enter the String you wish to encode/decode. The program will then print the encoded/decoded String to screen.

= Why is the Encoding so Weak? =

The main reason is that this was developed as a way of encoding passwords in a way that was better than plain text & would at the very least stump a potential hacker/other network user (albeit for a short period of time). Because of this it was considered that a weak key was okay. Other reasons for this was all other more heavyweight encoding solutions require some form of key for encoding/decoding which would have introduced another layer of complexity into the program. I do not recommend using this encoding outside of DbCon for usage beyond simple obsfucation.

= Other Solutions =

[http://www.jasypt.org/ The Jasypt project] seems to offer a very good set of message digest based hashing solutions which conform to RSA standards.